rc-02-Tools.md, before:

# IMSE 8410 Tools

*IMSE 8410 Advanced Computational Systems and Data Engineering*

Material Copyright 2017-2019 by Timothy Middelkoop. Source code
licensed under the Apache License, Version 2.0. Documentation licensed
under CC by SA 3.0.

## Tools

This class is approached from two directions.  Concepts and Tools.  It
takes a tool-first approach not because they are more important, they
are only a means to an end, but because the technical constraints,
prerequisites, and the shear time it takes to absorb and use the tools
had to be carefully constructed.  The tools are used to apply concepts
and techniques.  We will always try to motivate and explain the "why"
of the tools but it takes active participation and thinking. The tools
are replaceable, the concepts and techniques endure.

### OnDemand

Navigate to https://ondemand.rnet.missouri.edu and Login.  `Click Interactive`.
![OnDemand Main Page](resources/OnDemand-01-Main.png "Click Interactive")
`Click Jupyter Lab`
![OnDemand Interactive](resources/OnDemand-02-Interactive_LI.jpg "Click Jupyter Lab")
`Scroll Down`
![OnDemand Interactive](resources/OnDemand-03-NewLab.png "Scroll Down")
`Change Settings: Include Bash Kernal, 2 Hours, 2 Cores, 2 GB`; `Click Launch`
![OnDemand Interactive](resources/OnDemand-04-NewLabSettings_LI.jpg "Change Settings")
Wait 20 or more minutes.
![OnDemand Interactive](resources/OnDemand-05-Wait.png "Wait 20 min")
`Connect to Jupyter`
![OnDemand Interactive](resources/OnDemand-08-Connect_LI.jpg "Click Connect to Jupyter")
Jupyter Lab
![OnDemand Interactive](resources/OnDemand-09-JupyterLab.png "Enjoy")

### Clark (CLI)

### Gitlab

### Canvas (Assignments)

### Authentication (Secure Shell Keys)

Commit message:

OnDemand Clark and CLI Setup

rc-02-Tools.md, after:

# IMSE 8410 Tools

*IMSE 8410 Advanced Computational Systems and Data Engineering*

Material Copyright 2017-2019 by Timothy Middelkoop. Source code
licensed under the Apache License, Version 2.0. Documentation licensed
under CC by SA 3.0.

## Tools

This class is approached from two directions.  Concepts and Tools.  It
takes a tool-first approach not because they are more important, they
are only a means to an end, but because the technical constraints,
prerequisites, and the shear time it takes to absorb and use the tools
had to be carefully constructed.  The tools are used to apply concepts
and techniques.  We will always try to motivate and explain the "why"
of the tools but it takes active participation and thinking. The tools
are replaceable, the concepts and techniques endure.

### OnDemand

Navigate to https://ondemand.rnet.missouri.edu and Login.  `Click Interactive`.
![OnDemand](resources/OnDemand-01-Main.png "Click Interactive")
`Click Jupyter Lab`
![OnDemand Jupyter Lab Setup](resources/OnDemand-02-Interactive_LI.jpg "Click Jupyter Lab")
`Scroll Down`
![OnDemand Jupyter Lab Setup](resources/OnDemand-03-NewLab.png "Scroll Down")
`Change Settings: Include Bash Kernal, 2 Hours, 2 Cores, 2 GB`; `Click Launch`
![OnDemand Jupyter Lab Setup](resources/OnDemand-04-NewLabSettings_LI.jpg "Change Settings")
Wait 20 or more minutes.
![OnDemand Jupyter Lab Setup](resources/OnDemand-05-Wait.png "Wait 20 min")
`Connect to Jupyter`
![OnDemand Jupyter Lab Setup](resources/OnDemand-08-Connect_LI.jpg "Click Connect to Jupyter")
Jupyter Lab
![OnDemand Jupyter Lab](resources/OnDemand-09-JupyterLab.png "Enjoy")

### Clark (CLI)
`Clusters > _Clark Shell Access`
![OnDemand Shell](resources/OnDemand-06-Clark.png "Launch Clark Shell")
![OnDemand Shell Setup](resources/OnDemand-07-CLI_LI.jpg "Enter Commands")
![OnDemand Shell Setup](resources/OnDemand-07-CLI.png "Commands")

### Gitlab

### Canvas (Assignments)

### Authentication (Secure Shell Keys)
