# IMSE 8410 Command Line Interface

*IMSE 8410 Advanced Computational Systems and Data Engineering*

Material Copyright 2017-2019 by Timothy Middelkoop. Source code
licensed under the Apache License, Version 2.0. Documentation licensed
under CC by SA 3.0.

## Command Line Interface (CLI)

> "VÃ­steme despacio que estoy de prisa" ("Dress me slowly, for I'm in a hurry")
\- Napoleon Bonaparte


## Objectives

In this module we will cover the fundamentals of the CLI in a Linux
environment.  We leave the specifics of the commands to the reading
and to the `man` pages.

By the end of this module students should be:
 * Familiar with basics of the Command Line Interface in order to
execute commands on a High Performance Computing (HPC) cluster.
 * Familiar with the basics of the BASH shell, specifically with the
   following concepts that also apply more broadly:
   * Paths (relative, absolute)
   * Commands, options, and arguments.
   * Environment variables (`${PATH}`, `${USER}`, `${HOME}`)
   * Users and groups.
   * Processes.
   * File globbing
   * Command line expansion
   * Escaping escaping
   * Looping
   * `stdin`, `stdout`, `stderr`
   * Redirection


## Background

The Command Line Interface, often called the CLI, can be daunting and
frustratingly spartan at first but over time becomes a fast, natural,
and very powerful interface.

Early systems were connected to a typewriter for input and a line
printer for output [HW: verification and citation needed].  Today this
has changed very little and when it comes to most interactions remains
the same.  The only real change is the adoption of monitors and the
adoption of Unicode using UTF-8 over ASCII (which is backwards
compatible).

```
command
```
and
```
response
```

The spirit of the "Unix philosophy" is "Do One Thing and Do It Well,"
and such Unix and Linux is just a collection of small commands that,
when put together, make the whole.  In this module we will be
discussing the general framework, not the specifics of the tools, and
how it is all put together.

### Compute

This framework requires different programs (the `process`) to run and
interact in a multi-user environment in order to accomplish some
useful work.

The *process* is the fundamental unit of "compute."

> "In the beginning there was `init`"

The init process (magically, and now using systemd) is responsible for
running all the programs to setup and run the system.

A program is launched, runs, and then terminates.  Each process has a
number (called a `pid`) and has a parent process and a number of child process.

### Configuration

Processes can get configuration information through *environment
variables*.  Environment variables are `KEY=value` pairs and each
process has it's own (mutable) environment.  Child process get their
own copy of the environment, allowing for the parent to pass
configuration information to the child.


### Storage

The file is the fundamental unit of *storage*.  A file has a name,
ownership, permissions, and a location.  In Linux *files* live in
*directories* and directories are arranged into a single hierarchy of
files starting with the *root* (`/`) folder.  Processes can access
files either by specifying a *absolute path* starting with `/` or a
*relative path*.  The *relative path* is a folder that starts with the
processes *present working directory* or PWD.  Each process has a PWD
(that can change) and children inherent the parents PWD.

There are two special folders named `.` and `..`, which represent the
current and parent directories, relative to the folder that they are
in.

### Networking

In Linux communication between processes is accomplished though
`pipes` - the *network*.  These pipes can be either local or over the
network.  In the CLI this is most often the `stdin`, `stdout`, and
`stderr`.  Process pass information from their `stdout` to a child's
`stdout` (we will convently ignore `stderr`) though the use of
*redirection*.  This information is in the form of a stream of bytes
that is buffered between each process, and each process can run
simultaneously.*.  Redirection also allows directing streams to and
from files (hence the name).  In this way a number of commands can be
chained together transforming the information along the way.


## Reading
 * HPC Carpentry: Linux Shell
   (https://hpc-carpentry.github.io/hpc-shell/) sections 1-4
